
Grid controls are used in several places for displaying tabular
data. In some grids an entire row is selected as a unit while
others allow selection of individual cells. The text from
currently selected cells can be copied to the clipboard by
pressing Control-C. This text can be pasted into another grid,
into a different part of the same grid, or into an external
program such as Excel by selecting the target location and
pressing Control-V. Data can be copied from an external program
into an editable grid in the same way.
<p>
If the selected target location has fewer rows than the copied
text, the last rows of the copied text will not be pasted. If the
selected target location has more rows than the text that was
copied, extra rows will be filled with additional copies of the
text as necessary.
<p>
Some fields in some grids are editable. Some fields are edited by
typing a new value, others are changed by selecting a new value
from a drop-down list. To edit a field, select that field and
press Enter or simply begin to type the new value. If a drop-down
list appears, a selection can be made using the mouse or using the
up and down arrows on the keyboard. Press Enter to finish editing
the value or press Esc to revert to the old value.
<p>
Some editable fields have soft and/or hard limits for acceptable
values. The tool tip feature displays these limits while editing a
value. If a value being entered is outside the soft limits, the
background of the cell will be colored yellow to alert the user,
but no other actions are taken. If a value is outside the hard
limits or is incorrectly formatted, the background will be colored
red. If the user presses Enter while the background is red, the
value is changed back to the last acceptable value.
